# College-Basketball-Predictor
Some scripts and models associated with an introductory sports analytics presentation I've created. This project was presented at April 4, 2018 Undergraduate Mathematics Seminar at Vanderbilt University.

This project was meant to be introductory and accessible to undergraduates without knowledge of any statistical algorithms. Therefore, the code is not optimized for readability or speed but rather was done in the easiest and fastest way for the initial programmer. 

This project includes the following files: 

R Files:
-Cumulative_Average_Writer.R: Is a transformation on part of the data set to transform the initial (raw) data into a more usable form

-Scramble_Data.R: This file decouples the data from the data from the knowledge of who won each basketball game. More specifically, instead of stats being given for the "winning team" and "losing team" this file allows us to look at the data as coming from either "Team1" or from "Team2". This helps eliminate bias from our model.

-Tourney_Results.R: This file contains a baseline prediction accuracy for us to compare our model's performance to.

- Simple_Decision_Tree.R: This file contains the code to build the decision tree and regression model we eventually use. It also contains the code which generates a random forest model and an SVM model which were not used in the final presentation. This code also generates all all plots and diagrams used in the presentation

Data sets:
-TourneyCompactResults.csv: See the Kaggle March Madness 2017 competition

-RegularSeasonCompactResults.csv: See the Kaggle March Madness 2017 competition

-TourneySeeds.csv: see the Kaggle March Madness 2017 competition

-Scrambled_2017.csv: Contains the decoupled and augmented data which is generated by the R files Cumulative_Average_Writer.R and Scramble_Data.R

Other files:
- DecTree.png: A graphic of the final decision tree our model generated

-MM_Presentation.pdf: The final presentation given in the 4-4-18 Mathematics Undergraduate Seminar at Vanderbilt University

-

